The joy of email continues
==========================

It's summer.  I'm supposed to be writing the new CSC 151 curriculum.  I'm
supposed to be getting the Jupyter server running for the code camp.  I'm
supposed to be taking it a bit easier.

But, as always, I start my day with email.  It seems that I have tons to
deal with.  Let's see.  Here's the email I sent this morning.

* A message to our ASA about keys.  Why?  Because it sounds like
  FM still doesn't understand that they have not found a single
  key that opens all of the spaces we need, which include not just
  the CS-specific spaces [1], but also general teaching spaces [2].
  We had this problem when PM, Charlie, and Titus started.  Why do
  we need to keep fighting the same battle each year?  Why am I
  sending this message?  Jerod sent the initial one, but I thought it
  was useful to send a followup since I know more history.
* A response to Jerod about a proposal to the administration.  This
  response required some time to read through the proposal and an
  accompanying spreadsheet.
* A response to a student's questions about online courses.  ("Which
  of these should I take?  Will the department count these [3]?
* A response to a student's questions about job opportunities in the
  department.
* A note to our ASA to check about the status of the requested information
  on how much we paid our student assistants last year.
* Letters to parents of campers on our wait list.
  A note to the Dean's office asking for reimbursement for my
  ACM membership renewal [4], after renewing my ACM membership in  
  response to a "renew your membership" message.
* Some additional notes to my Code Camp collaborators.
* Reply to the Dean's query about the proposal mentioned above [5].
* Response to a series of questions from Communications about the 
  Code Camp.
* A few questions to our ASA to plan for pizza from Pag's on
  Friday [6].
* Advice to an advisee [7].
* A variety of questions to our new faculty member.
* A note to our CIO asking why new faculty members don't get accounts
  until August 1 when students get them as soon as they pay deposits.


---
  
[1] Our offices, research labs, learning center, teaching labs, 
storage closet, and such. 

[2] Science 3821, our non-computing classroom; Science 3820, the computing
classroom we share with math/stats; the storage rooms on the second floor;
Science 1530, the division computing classroom; and much more.
 
[3] No.  But we might allow you to use them as prerequisites.  Ask the
faculty member who teaches the course for which they are prerequisites.

[4] As of a year or so ago, faculty can use up to $300 of their
research funds for professional memberships.

[5] I wasn't included in the final version of the proposal message, but
I'm not sure Jerod is available to answer.

[6] Even though Pag's is not open for lunch, they will deliver if you
make a reasonably large order.

[7] Mostly, "Yes, it would be a good idea for you to do PE courses in 
the fall.  I've approved them."

---

*Version 1.0 of 2017-07-19.*
