Still on hiatus
===============

*Topics/tags: [Meta](index-meta), short*

As some have noted, I have not been musing or ranting this semester.
Let me clarify; I have not been *writing* or *posting* musings or rantings
this semester.  Anyone who has talked to me at a faculty meeting knows
that I continue to rant; I few people know that I've also been musing
internally one a wide variety of issues.

Why haven't I written?  It's mostly an issue of time.  I'm teaching
two heavily revamped courses this semester, neither of which was really
prepared before the semester started.  I think I've averaged between two
and three new readings each week, and between two and three corresponding
labs [1].  Many homework assignments, particularly those for CSC 151, take
a significant amount of time to write, since I also need to generate
supporting code [2].

My highest priority is time with my family.  My second highest priority
is making sure that my classes are ready.  My third highest priority is
my host of professional obligations [3].  I also need to get grading done.
And, well, I do need some time to myself once in a while.  That's enough
that I'm always behind.  So I can't really spare the hour each night to
write; writing time needs to be spent on my classes [4].

But the past week or two have reminded me that I shouldn't leave the
musings behind.  A new colleague dropped me a note saying "Thanks for
writing about preregistration; it was helpful."  Surprisingly enough, our
director of institutional research thanked me for the historical piece
on end of course evaluations.  In class, a student said something like
"I hear that you wrote a 'blog post about dining services.  Tell me more"
[5,6].  A student I didn't know told me they appreciated that same post.
A parent of an alum sent me a Facebook message asking when I'd start
writing again.  A few colleagues asked me the same question.

The short answer is: "_Once I've survived this semester, I expect to
resume [7] daily musing_."  The particular date that will happen is still
under consideration.  It's more important that I resume daily exercise.
I also have a large commitment early in the summer [9].  But I hope to
have time to write a few musings or rants before I resume daily writing.
For example, I hope to write the long-promised reflection [10] on
end-of-course evaluations [11].  I should also write something about
our wonderful graduating seniors.  I feel bad that I did not have the time
to reflect on prereg this year, but I really did not have time.  I also
feel bad that I have not mused about a newly-degreed colleague; that's
on my agenda.

Why did I write this piece?  In part, it was the confluence of events that
I mentioned a few paragraphs back.  But it's also that I was compelled
to write about [Salt Marsh Suite](salt-marsh-suite) and thought it made
sense to post this as a companion piece, of sorts.

In any case, I hope some of you will start reading again when I start
writing again.  You can check my [Twitter feed](https://twitter.com/rebelsky), 
Facebook, or the [RSS feed](rss.xml).

Back soon.

-- SamR

---

[1] And the corresponding code.

[2] Writing unit tests for the CSC 207 exams has also taken a lot of
time; I've tried to give students relatively comprehensive tests and
a reasonable amount of supporting code, which also consumes time.

[3] This semester, SIGCSE Volunteer Coordination took some time, as did
some SIGCAS responsibilities.  Right now, I'm deeply in dealing with
Tapia Scholarships.

[4] Or, perhaps, catching up on sleep.

[5] I thought the student was referring to my long rant on the cost
of meal plans, particularly as compared to individual meals.  But it
turns out that I had also ranted about the amount of money we get when
a student turns in a meal ticket for, say, a departmental picnic or
a charitable event.

[6] I should probably include links to those pieces; however, I'm too
lazy right now.

[7] I do not intend to résumé daily musing [8].

[8] Yes, I know that résumé is not a verb.

[9] That commitment is *after* youngest graduates.

[10] Or, perhaps, revised reflection.

[11] Unfortunately, frustration at the faculty vote to continue the use
of EOCEs, even though they show clear bias, makes it harder for me to 
write sensibly.  The struggles with our new electronic EOCE systems [12]

[12] Is that "EEOCE" (electronic end-of-course evaluation),
"EOCEE" (end-of-course electronic evaluation), or "EOCSE" (end-of-course
"smart" evaluation) [14].

[14] We use a product called SmartEvals.  My initial experiences have not
been positive.

---

*Version 1.0 of 2019-04-27.*
